# Correct for turbine clustering

The construction of the CRM requires that the flight flux through the
observed window be scaled to the size of a turbine and then applied to
each turbine. If If the (effective) detection range of the observer
overlaps multiple turbines the flux needs to be scaled appropriate over
the turbines in the observation range.

## Usage

``` r
cluster_correction_a(eff_detection_width, df_turbines, crs = 4326)

cluster_correction_l(
  eff_detection_width,
  avg_min_distance = NULL,
  df_turbines = NULL,
  crs = 4326
)
```

## Arguments

- eff_detection_width:

  numeric; the effective detection (half) width or effective detection
  radius

- df_turbines:

  data.frame; (optional) a data.frame with one row per turbine,
  containing the coordinates of each turbine as latitude, longitude
  pairs. Coordinate columns can be named (lon, long, longitude, x) and
  (lat, latitude, y)

- crs:

  optional coordinate system epsg code for the coordinates. Only used if
  df_turbines provided. Defaults to crs = 4326 (WGS 84 - lat/lon).

- avg_min_distance:

  numeric; (optional) the mean distance between each turbine and its
  nearest neighbour. Alternatively you can input a data.frame with
  turbine coordinates

## Value

numeric; the minimum of 1 or a fractional scaling factor, calculated as
the ratio of the total area covered by the turbines buffered by the EDA
divided by the area if each turbine buffer were completely independent.

numeric; the minimum of 1 or a fractional scaling factor, calculated as
the ratio of the average distance between turbine neighbours and the
effective strip width

## Details

If the turbine layout is more compact and/or your effective detection
width is large, then the effective detection area contains more than one
turbine, in which case the observed flux needs to be weighted to account
for the effective turbines in the observed area. This accounts for the
fact that the observed flux is an instantaneous measure and cannot
interact with multiple turbines at once.

This package provides a 1D line correction `cluster_correction_l()` and
2D aerial `cluster_correction_a()`.

### `cluster_correction_l()`

The 1D (line) correction calculates the ratio of the effective strip
width (ESW) and the mean distance between each turbine and it's nearest
neighbour. It's suitable for line transects or for interim CRM early in
the project life-cycle where the turbine spacing can be estimated but
the layout may not be available.

### `cluster_correction_a()`

The 2D aerial correction places a buffer of radius equal to the
effective detection radius (EDR) around each turbine, then generates a
spatial union of those buffers. The correction is the ratio of the
actual turbine area to the area if the turbine buffers do not overlap.

### Relationship to other spatial corrections

This correction is derived from different assumptions but fulfils a
similar model correction as the `sqrt(n_turbines)` in previous CRM
(Smales et al. 2013; Band 2012) .

Alternatively, a spatial probability surface can be generated by the
analyst using kernel density estimate (KDE) or similar and used instead
to estimate the proportion of flights at a given turbine estimation.
That approach requires more data and site coverage.

## Examples

``` r

# generate inputs information

df_turbines <- data.frame(
  turbine_id = c("T1", "T2", "T3"),
  lat = c(-35.036287, -35.03900, -35.03200),
  lon = c(145.947140, 145.94500, 145.94200)
)

eff_detection_width <- 500 

cluster_correction_a(eff_detection_width = 500, df_turbines, crs = 4326)
#> [1] 0.9424847


# generate input data


df_turbines <- data.frame(
  turbine_id = c("T1", "T2", "T3"),
  lat = c(-35.036287, -35.03900, -35.03200),
  lon = c(145.947140, 145.94500, 145.94200)
)

##option 1 - provide the average distance between turbine neighbours

sf_turbines <- sf::st_as_sf(df_turbines, 
  coords = c("lon", "lat"), 
  crs = 4326)
  
idx <- sf::st_nearest_feature(sf_turbines)
dist_avg <- sf::st_distance(sf_turbines, sf_turbines[idx,], by_element=TRUE) |>
   mean() |>
   as.numeric()


corr1 <- cluster_correction_l(eff_detection_width = 800, 
                              avg_min_distance = dist_avg)
   
## option 2 - provide the data frame (might be slower)
 
corr2 <- cluster_correction_l(eff_detection_width = 800, 
                              df_turbines = df_turbines,
                              crs = 4326 # provide crs with turbines
                              )
 ## should be equal (or very very close)
 corr1; corr2
#> [1] 0.5776061
#> [1] 0.5771365
```
